Hey there, welcome back to building or project.
At this time, let's build the story section.
And so, by building this section, you're going to learn
how to deal with overlapping grid items,
why images are special and behave different
than the other grid items,
and also how to decide if Flexbox is
a better tool than CSS Grid in certain situations.
Okay, so this is the final result
that we're looking for for this section.
And so let's start with this right side here,
where we put these two headings,
then the text, and finally the button.
And we then, by the end, also center this
vertically here in this container element.
Okay, so before, I already said that
this one here is an h2 element,
and this is an h3 element, right?
And so let's now go to our markup
and code up this part of the website.
So, we start with the story content
and leave the pictures here for the next video.
Okay, so we start with the heading-3, so h3,
and I'm calling it heading-3,
and in here it says, "Happy Customers."
Then we have an h2 called heading-2,
and it says, "The best decision of our lives."
Then we also have this special symbol here,
so let me show it to you.
So, this one here, to opening the quote,
and this one to closing the quote.
And so the first one is this special entity,
so &ldquo; and this one is &rdquo;.
Okay, now, the paragraph, which is the story text,
and so right now we're using actually the name of the block,
okay, which up here, we did not,
because these styles here, again, they are reusable.
Then, for this text, let's go back here
to this file that we have and copy it,
and we can also close it,
because we're not going to need it ever again.
So let's paste it here, and then just to finish,
we need a button with the class "btn".
So, just as we've been doing.
And this one says, "Find your own home."
Okay, so let's take a look at that.
And so here we go, all right.
So that's what it looks like right now.
And so let's first add some padding here to this box,
and then start by styling the h2 and the h3,
or, actually, the h2 and the h3, okay.
So, let's open up the story file here,
and we see that we already have some code here, of course.
That's because of the placement of these two grid items
in our overall layout grid, all right?
So the content has this background color,
which is actually already the one that we want in the end,
and so let's just add some padding here very quickly,
so 6 top and bottom, and 12 on the left and right side.
Okay, let's open up the typography now,
and so we're going to start styling the h2 and then the h3.
So for this one, we want a font-size of 4 rem,
a font-style of italic, and we can do that
because we included the italic style
here in the beginning of our HTML,
so this one here, so 400i for the italic text.
And then, actually, for this one,
we also, just as for the h4,
we want a light and a dark version, okay?
Because we're going to reuse it
somewhere else on the page with a light version.
So right now here, we want the dark one,
so let's go add that here, actually.
So we want a heading-2--dark in this case.
Right, so that's the h2, and now as for the h3,
the font-size is just 1.6 rem,
the color is our primary color, so the gold color,
and then we also want the text to be uppercase.
Okay, let's just check it out,
and now here we see a problem,
and that's because of this huge line-height that we defined
of 1.6, and so let's put that to 1 here,
so that we don't have all of this space in there.
So that's the h2, and so line-height 1, and yeah,
that looks a lot more natural.
We also need some spacing here,
but let's take care of that a bit later.
For now, I'm going to style the button here first,
and I'm also going to do that
in the typography here, actually.
So down here, let me just add a button class here.
So the background color is, again, the primary color,
the text color should then be white,
and since it is a button element,
we need to also get rid of the border,
so border: none; and also of the border radius,
because by default, it has some,
and we don't need that, okay?
So as for the font-family,
it should be also the display font,
so $font-display; the font-size should be 1.5 rem,
and we want it to be transformed to uppercase.
So this is nothing new here, maybe just
to get some practice for you.
Maybe for that it's good.
Okay, then also let's add some padding,
1.8 to top and bottom, and 3 left and right.
And again, I played around with these values,
and these are the ones that I like the most, okay?
So if you want to take a look at different values,
of course you can do that.
So we also defined a pointer as a cursor,
because otherwise the button doesn't have this hand cursor.
Now, we also want a small and subtle hover effect,
so nothing crazy here in this case.
And all that's going to change is just the background color
to color primary in the dark version.
Okay, then some transition here, of course,
and again, nothing all too crazy.
So let's check that one out, and yeah,
well, the transition doesn't look right.
Now, that's because I'm missing the second here.
All right, yeah, so that looks a lot better.
So now let's just quickly style this text,
and it should look like this,
so of course bigger, and also italic.
So where do we do that?
Well, right here in the story,
and we can do it then down here,
because, remember, it's called story text.
Okay, so font-size: 1.5 rem,
and the font-style should be italic.
Okay, that's better also.
Now, about the spacing that I was mentioning,
we really shouldn't hard-code
the margin-bottoms here into these headings,
because, again, we're going to reuse them
throughout the page, and so if we add some margin here
that's good for these situations,
then that margin might not be good
for other situations in other places of our page.
And so, just like we did with other projects in this course,
we're going to use some helper classes here, okay?
So I'm actually going to add them here
also to typography file, because I don't want
to just create another file just for this.
Okay, so right now I'm being
a bit lazy here for that, but it's no problem.
If you have a bigger project,
then of course you cannot do it like this,
but I'm just going to put some margin-bottom classes here,
and so it's no big deal.
So I'm simply going to call these mb,
which stands for margin-bottom,
and then sm, which stands for small, okay,
so that we don't have to write out these huge class names.
So margin-bottom, and let's set this one to just 2 rem.
Okay, and so we're going to use
that one for the first heading.
Then let's simply copy this and paste it a couple of times,
so small, medium, large, and huge.
So 2, 3, and I'm not sure if
I'm going to use the other ones here as well,
but let's just fill them out.
Okay, we always have to assume
that our project might grow sometime in the future,
and we have to be prepared for that.
And so these helper classes, they are very useful for that.
In effect, there is something happening in CSS right now
where people are starting to style their entire pages
using only these small and unique classes.
That's called Atomic CSS, and if you want to look into that,
it's also quite interesting.
I'm not sure if I'm a big fan of that right now,
but I can definitely see how it's useful
to use these classes here in some points.
Okay, so sometimes it's really useful.
Maybe it's a bit too much to style
all of the elements on your page
just using these helper classes
like some people are doing,
but definitely they have a place in CSS development.
Okay, and so right now,
let me go ahead and actually use them.
Okay, so the first one here, I want it to have
a margin-bottom of small, and this one
a margin-bottom of medium.
And let me take a look.
So this one is 4 rem here,
so let's actually use this one here for the paragraph.
Okay, so margin-bottom and large,
or I could actually put these 4 rem margin-bottom
directly on this element here, right,
because it's not a reusable one.
So let me come here to the story text,
and simply add a margin-bottom of 4 rem here in this case.
Okay, so instead of using a helper class here,
it's not really necessary because it is not
a reusable element that I want to reuse
somewhere else on the page.
Okay, and so yeah, that's what it looks like,
and the spacing looks good like this,
and so we're ready to move on to the next step,
which is to actually vertically center all of this
here in this parent container.
Now, how are we actually going to do that?
Well, we could, of course, use CSS Grid once more,
and it wouldn't be all too difficult to do that.
However, this is just a one-dimensional layout, in fact.
Right, so you have this element here,
then this, then this, and then this, all after another.
But on the sides, you don't have anything else,
and so it's just a one-dimensional layout,
like it's going in this direction, from here to here.
So we could use, instead of CSS Grid, Flexbox here, right?
And remember that I said that in modern web development,
CSS Grid is sometimes, or actually many times,
used together with Flexbox, and in this case,
Flexbox is clearly a good solution
to do exactly what we want to do here.
Okay, and so you can also practice some Flexbox here,
and so that's a great opportunity as well.
So how are we going to do that?
Well, first of all, we need to say that this content here,
which is the parent element, should be the flex container.
So display: flex; and so let's
take a look at what happens here.
And of course, I hope that's what you expected.
Okay, so all of these flex items are now side by side.
But that's not what we want, right?
We want them one below the other,
and so we need to change the flex-direction to column.
Okay, and so with that, remember we also change the axis.
So this is now the main axis going from the top down,
and the cross axis is now going from the left to the right.
Okay, so how do we now center all of these items here
across the main axis, so this axis here?
How do we do that?
Well, we simply use justify-content, set it to center,
and that's actually it.
So yeah, that's it.
So you see, when we now change the size of this,
you see that it always
stays here nicely vertically centered, right?
There's just one small problem with that,
and that is that this button here is now ranging all the way
from this side to the other side.
And so you remember why that is happening?
It is because the align-items property
in Flexbox is set to stretch.
Okay, so align-items aligns the items
along the cross axis in Flexbox,
so in this direction here, and it's set to stretch,
but we don't want that; instead we want it
to set to flex-start, so let's do that.
Flex-start, let's check it out, and that's it.
So that is the solution of this problem.
So, I know that maybe it's a bit confusing for you
to now use Flexbox all together here with CSS Grid,
but that's just so that you know that
this is how it works in the real world,
and also that you don't forget Flexbox
just because you'll know CSS Grid now.
Okay, so of course we could have done it
with CSS Grid as well, so let me show that to you as well,
and actually it would have been even easier than this.
So let's take this part out of the code,
and so instead of a Flexbox container,
let's set it to grid now,
and so now what property do we actually use
to align all of our grid tracks in a vertical direction?
That's the align-content property,
and we just have to set it to center, okay?
So let's take a look at that, and yeah,
it works just the same, so let's actually inspect this here,
so story content, and so these are the grid items here,
of course, one, two, three, and four,
and they are now vertically centered as well,
because of this align-content set to center.
Okay, now the same thing here happens as we had before
with the Flexbox, which is that this here
now spans all the way across this grid track,
and that is, once more, because the grid items,
by default, stretch all across their grid cells.
Okay, so how do we stop them from doing that,
and instead put them here just all the way
to the start, or to the the left side?
Well, we're looking at the row axis here, right,
and to align the items in the row axis,
we use justify-items.
Okay, remember that?
So justify-items: start; and that should fix it.
And indeed, it does, so everything works
just the same as with the Flexbox solution, okay?
It's just that we're now using CSS Grid here
for a one-dimensional layout,
and that's, I think, a bit weird,
so it's a bit counter-intuitive,
because for that, we have Flexbox.
But of course, it's not a problem at all,
and so I'm actually going to leave it as it is,
and we have, instead of four lines of CSS,
we have only three.
So we actually even have to write a bit less code.
Okay, so you can go with whatever makes more sense to you,
but it's also good to see that we can use
these two different technologies
to achieve the exact same thing.
Okay, now another thing that I just noticed
when I was resizing this page here
is that at some point there's not enough space here,
and we have a bit too much space here
on the left and on the right side.
And so we can also, instead of
having it hard-coded like this here,
so the left and right paddings,
they're hard-coded to being 12 rem,
we can also set them as a percentage of the viewport.
Okay, so let's go with 10 viewport width units,
and let's see if that changes it.
Ow, and that's actually a bit too much.
Let's move it down to eight, and that looks much better.
And so, if we resize it now, ah, that's much nicer.
Okay, so you see that now, this padding
really changes as the width of the viewport changes.
Right, so that's a bit more natural.
And yeah, so this viewport width unit is getting
more and more used for building these
really, truly responsive layouts.
And it's actually an amazing unit.
It's really helpful for this kind of stuff,
and I hope you can see that and you can use it
more and more in your designs whenever you see fit.
So this first part here of the stories is not done.
Next up, we're going to then place these two images here,
and for that, again, we're going to use CSS Grid,
so right in the next video is where we're going to do that.